about sorting out the prisoners according
to beliefs, et cetera. Because we didn't know
that. We had no idea that this was taking place. And
we did have one guy, I do remember, an officer who
interviewed various people, you know, about
whatever we wanted to talk about. I was kind of like
a psychiatrist. Now tell me when this took place. I
don't remember which camp. It was not my last camp.
It was before that. Because I had about four or five
camps. And I do remember an interview. That would
be interesting if anything. If that was the
program that... You mentioned where they started
to look for the politics in prison. We didn't think
we had any politics because we felt we were just
soldiers. And besides, we felt whatever you
believed in, that was okay because that's what you
do. Were you political before you became one of the
Army? No, not really. Because you were growing up
during chaotic times. Very much. So my friends, my
best friend was. And they tried to recruit me
several times. But first of all, you had to pay
dues. And they wanted me to join and promise you
better jobs and all that kind of stuff. Kind of like
a union, take care of you. Right. But I only did, I
think I did one tennis clinic. And I may have done
some ski clinics and things like that. Because I
was into sports, into my own personal sports.
Right. In which I was excelling quite well,
because I was champion, Middle Silesia, or Middle
Silesian tennis champion. That's 18 and under.
Yes. And also, I won a few races in skiing. And I was
entering tournaments. So I was what you would call
a tournament player. And I was enjoying my skill.
And there weren't that many, so that was my forte,
so to speak. And I didn't want to get into any of
these marches and things like that. I didn't care
for that. I do remember I volunteered once to go way
out in some village kind of to teach some songs, and
some of them were English songs. I don't quite, it
doesn't quite, I do remember there was some
voluntary work that I did, because I had more
education than most of the, at least the villages
around the middle of Schlesien, they're all rural
people, you know. But I never got into the
mainstream of this Nazi movement. Like my friend
Horst Trispel, which I have a picture of, who rose
rapidly in it, became kind of stars. And then when
the army got him, he immediately rose to captain
and got into pairs. Well, you didn't get involved
in the political side. No, for the personal
reasons, because I was already involved in my own
sports and so forth. And they would have tennis
tournaments that were probably sponsored by the
state, maybe. That I don't know. Because they just
said, you go to Breslau and there's a tennis
tournament. You're entered and you play. That's
all I know. So that was my association with the
party. And I did have a lot of problems in my teens,
health problems, strangely enough. I used to tell
Jean about it. I had pneumonia twice. My poor
mother had to nurse me through those things. Plus
diphtheria. A hard case of diphtheria where I
almost died. And they just came out with this new
serum. And they said, okay, we'll try it out on you.
If he makes it, fine. If it works, fine. If not. And
so it worked. But I was paralyzed in one leg from the
serum. They told me you either break out with some
kind of skin disease or you get paralyzed by that
serum because it was new. So that took, you might
say, two and a half, three years out of growing up
years, out of my teenage years. I was in
quarantine. My classmates had to throw flowers in
my window. They weren't allowed to see me because
it was... I really was not in the main, I was not that
well sometimes, so I would bounce right back and
get back into it, but then I had trouble catching up
again, which happened to me in school one day after
diphtheria. I just couldn't catch up with the
classes. So I had to make one class over and I had a
little more trouble then because they came behind
me with French They already had four years of
French and I only had maybe two years of French, you
see. But I had more English. What caused you to
learn English? That was more or less part of our
curriculum. You either took English or you took
French. The Ober-Rial school in Schweidens. They
had two types of schools that you've probably
heard of. One called the gymnasium, and the ones
that became doctors and lawyers, they took Latin
there, and they became, it was right next door to
us, we shared the same soccer league. And the ones
that could add and had a little feeling for
drawings and so on, They went the other way and
became artists or engineers and architects and so
on.
And they went to the overall schools and they had
different curriculum. How did you get drawn into
the Army? The war was on. I was way deferred, part of
it. I was still a student.
And then I think I volunteered for another type of
service, which was working somewhere in East
Prussia. We built drainage in the marshes. We
drained the ditches. We had no guns or anything. We
had a volunteer company.
And when I came back, in fact, I do remember we were,
some of us were supposed to go to the big Nuremberg
thing. But it was canceled because of some
invasion. I don't recall which country was
invaded at the time. Because it did happen so fast,
I will
probably get, once I sit down and reconstruct it, I
can probably figure out which one. And so when I
came back, I was trying to be to Artaud. And my
friend had already been in there a year or so. Been
to Paris.
Oh, so if he had been to Paris, it was after 1940.
Yeah, so it was quite late, you see. Poland was
attacked in 1939. France fell in the spring of
1940. So if he had been to Paris, it would have to
have been after the summer of 1940.
We'll find that out from the record.
And then I got sick again in the army. I had another
bout with pneumonia. I had this horrible...
And the coldest place, even colder than my
hometown, Olin, I think it was. Olau. Olau.
O-H-L-A-U was the name of that town I was stationed
in. And it was one of the artillery units with
horses. The coldest place. And I come back from
exercises
one day, and I just killed it. And I would die in the
morning. So back to the... several months,
and then I got reassigned to another unit. Your
parents are still alive. There's one sister. One
sister and my brother are still alive. At that
time, yes. Yes, your sister is Lottie. And your
brother's name was what? Paul. Paul.
He'd just gotten married, and he got married, and
my sister got married just before I... But I was...
She married Herbert. Herbert, yeah. Now, some of
my time is probably not quite accurate, because
while I was in that artillery with the horses on
maneuvers one time, I had this horrible accident
where that horse kicked me while I was in the saddle
and broke my shinbone. And it did not heal. And they
were talking about cutting my leg off.
So there I was out again for several months. And I
really didn't think I was going to make 30 at the
rate I was going. I mean, I was bombed with these
things all the time. So I do remember I had that
pneumonia and then that accident. And that seemed
to, by then, that was it. And then I seemed to be all
right after that. And I spent most of my time, for
some obscure reason, I spent most of my time as a
drill instructor.
Just everybody was coming through, going to
various fronts, and I was assigned to drilling.
You know, basic, fundamental, mostly right and
left. Discipline, plain discipline. Well, that
was probably because you were ill and you were
being recycled each time as people came through
and went on. You were allowed to heal. Yeah. I'm
sure I had some because my assignments were really
strange because everybody else was going
someplace or was being promoted. You know,
nothing happened to me. I was kind of in a
backwater, so to speak. And finally... We'll find
out when the record's coming from Germany, we may
see a little notation on the side that says, this
man is too important to send to battle. We need to
keep him as a drill instructor here in Natural
Leader.
Yeah, and they said I was a good drill instructor
because I had a good voice, good presence. What was
your rank at this time? just over-cannoneer.
That's the strange thing. I never get promoted.
There was another thing. But I, the training
method, contrary to what most people think, that
at least that we used, was a very, was more of role,
not reversal, but playing In other words, just
because I might be assigned to take the whole
battalion out, you see, and we changed that
around. The guy in command, the two, the officers
may never show up. And then somebody else in charge
says, Dennis, you take them all out there and take
them up that hill. Or something, you see. So you got
to take command. Yes. And then they'd say, okay,
now go back to your rank, whatever that was, you
see. And I never heard people say that so much, you
know. They always think it's very rigid. It
wasn't. My training was not. So I was used to taking
command of large groups of people. Right. without
ever having any rank, which is even harder. Yes,
yes. But they must have listened to you. Yeah, so
you had to have some voice and some presence. And it
was funny, later on, when I was teaching skiing, I
could take command of a class in the middle of a
blizzard. And my boss, Bill Klein, used to say,
Dennis, tone down your voice. Everybody can hear
you from down below. Down at the lodge, they could
listen to my listen. My instruction was a thousand
feet up. My voice is so clear. And that air, too,
also in the cold air. Yeah, in the cold air. So this
was about 1942? 1942, I would say. 1942. And then
somehow you went from here to Africa. Oh, then
finally I got an assignment as a K.O.B., Creeks
Officer Reverber. And they said they were going to
send me to school in Heidelberg. And that was the
interesting one when I met the fellow that married
my girlfriend. Yes, I remember. Yes. was my older
lieutenant and instructor. Oh, was that right?
Yeah. So you couldn't get too angry after that. No.
And they really put us to the paces there. And that
very short time was when I was concentrated. It was
more testing and what your aptitudes were rather
than teaching. I didn't teach much, but they
wanted to know what you knew. Like, for instance,
that escape thing I told you about, where they just
simply tested you and said, now, okay, now we're
going to, You're going to escape from your
prisoner and you're going to escape. They're
going to let you free on one downtown Heidelberg
and you're going to make your way over there to this
corner.
Everything is going to be graded, obviously.
I just took the streetcar. I thought that was a good
way to get there. The fastest way. Sure. Never mind
walking in the back side streets and alleys. So,
but as I looked, I could see some officers standing
on the street, you know, checking me. So I ducked
behind the seat and the passenger car looked and
kind of laughed and smiled, but they didn't. throw
a big commotion on me. So I got right past those
officers. They let me through, got through, and I
got back. So that was my one and only, and it was not
anything they taught me, nothing like a big
course, survival course or anything like that. It
was just a test. Can you, I'll drop you there and can
you make it across town without being caught? Or
the soul book. I think that added to your sense that
you could
Yes, exactly. Exactly, it did.
And another thing gave me courage while I was
agonizing over escaping, which took several
weeks and hours, and even before the actual break,
I never... Oh, now we're in camp, we're at Deming,
at Lordsburg. At Deming, yeah. But I do remember,
in answer to your question, Kenny, I do remember, I
was still a student, And people, strangers were
coming into Schweidnitz. Up to that point, all
strangers, we would know everybody in that small
town. And I remember one time, and I still have it in
my mind, this little park, and a strange young man
walked through. And I thought to myself, he could
be a spy. We would not know. And we would not bother
him because he didn't do anything to us. He could
just walk through. But it occurred to me that
people could walk in strange places. Yes. And even
though other people might be suspicious, but they
would probably, if you were lucky, let you get by.
Yes. If you didn't do anything real dumb. To call
attention to yourself. Yeah. That's a good lesson
to have learned. Later on, you know that you could
walk through a place. Yeah, I always thought he
looked like a spy. That's what I thought. I thought
he was going to spy in a little town. He was even
calling attention to himself. He wasn't causing
any harm. Yeah.
So you found yourself assigned to Heidelberg. And
at the end of this course, there was a which was
Rwanda's course, which I, by the way, was among the
first top five graduating.
It must have been about 400 guys. They immediately
came out with a little note on the bulletin board
for volunteers for Africa. And there I agonized
again, because I thought for sure they knew by now
that I had taught skiing, cross-country skiing to
the soldiers, toward Russia. And I thought for
sure they had it already in my file. But I went in,
and that Oberlutend was the only guy, I had to see
him, the guy that Married your sweetie. Yeah,
married my sweetie. I had to go see him, and I said, I
did not, because I came from the eastern part of
Europe, and I had read all the books on WWI, what
happened to those guys in Russia, and you don't
even have to go to war. Just to be there is a terrible
thing. Just to be there is enough. Plus those
miserable weapons, if you ever... In sub-zero
weather, you touch one of those guns or your hands,
you lose half of your skin. I mean, these things
alone. It's crazy to volunteer for that kind of
stuff. I felt I'd rather my bones can stay in the sun
and get dried out by the sun in Africa. That sounds
reasonable. I would vote for that. My father
fought in the First World War. The Austrian Army
Column College. the Kaiser-Empire Army, the
Austro-Hungarian Army. He was down in the Italian
front, fighting the Italians along the Piave
River. So they accepted you for the African? Yeah,
I was surprised. They accepted me and shipped me
off to Greece. And there's my little eagle eyes
that I picked going over the Brenna Pass. They only
grow in... above timber and
it
shows where i was in the hospital as mentioned in
there oh yeah these these little inserts are
interesting because i tell you what to do how to
behave as a prisoner of
war and help Guard your health. Oh, yes, yes, here
on the inside, yes. Oh, I see. This is to remember.
The soul book must be kept in, always kept in order.
Everything must be entered. Your soldier's book
is your No, no, no. Go ahead. They took it away from
me. Yeah, I would have thrown it away. Who did it?
Who did it? Oh, I see.
Yeah. How did she have
gotten this? How
did she get this?
Well, that's great. How would they have gotten it?
This had to be carried with you as you were captured
from camp to camp. This was sealed into an
envelope, and each commanding officer passed it
along to each new commanding officer. Yes, that's
correct. So somehow, maybe when you left, maybe
when you slipped out, they couldn't find you after
a certain period of time. The war was over. They may
have sent this to you. Yeah, they may have. That's
part of the official papers. But the most touching
part of it is we got all through the book, and now I'm
here. Yes. I'm taking everything. Sure, sure. The
Adelweiss.
How do
you like that? Well, usually
the unit picture went in here. The picture of the
platoon or the picture of the squad was... often
kept in there. But this is even nicer. Doesn't that
tell you a good luck that you're telling us? Yes, it
is. It's kind of a good luck flower. Yes, it is.
This is how it would be to act as a prisoner.
Wenn du das Unglück hast, when you are unfortunate
enough to be taken prisoner, Well, you
had no idea when you got this that you would have the
unblick.
But the Germans... as you well know have this
system of hands-on promotion in other words you
know in order to become an officer you have to go to
the front first you can't just go to school same i
was going to be an architect and i had to learn a
trade so i became a mason and i in fact i gave that
answer to whoever wrote the book, Mason, as my
occupation. And it was later crossed out that I was
a student, because it's confusing, you know,
because I really wasn't going to be a Mason. But you
had to be a Mason to even get into the school. You had
to show proof of a trade. So that's the hands-on
type.
How did you go from How did you get to, you went to
Italy, and then from Italy to Greece, and then from
Greece to Tunisia? No, first to Greece. To Greece.
Yeah. And Rommel was retreating from Al-Alamin
across North Africa faster than we could catch up
with him. That's my impression now. I'm just
trying to find the dates, because the date of
transport would be here. Yeah, that should be in
there. And I was sent to Africa in one of those
younger planes. I have a picture that I might have
sent you. And I got so deathly sick. And they
dropped me off in Crete where they were refueling.
I just simply heaved everything out. And both
hands, I was just awful sick.
By the time I got up, They decided not to. I had no
more planes going to North Africa or whatever, but
they sent me back and I went to Israel to catch up
with my unit, which was retreating in North
Africa. So they tried to go around this way, and I
got sick and stayed in Crete, but my buddies did get
over there. Because when I caught up with them a
week or so Ten days later, they were already there.
I was right at the tail end of the battle of Tobruk.
Now, these are boys that you went through school
with, I see. Two or three guys that were in the same
class. Have you ever, well, I certainly wouldn't
have heard from them since, or you wouldn't have
contacted them. My father did. No kidding. He
heard from them, because he searched for me. Yes, I
saw the article. Yeah, and so some of them answered
him when they went to school. And, in fact, one of my
nieces sent me a letter also to get in touch with one
of the guys that, which I haven't done yet, but I
have to get it. Oh, nice. That's nice. So you went to
meet your school. These were school chums. They
were in the same unit.
Mm-hmm. Something motorized
me. I came right in the middle of a dual
artillery barrage when I reported in.
And I remember the first thing you learn is that you
dig your own foxhole. Was that right? You're not
allowed in anybody else's box. Oh, was that right?
They threw you out? As soon as the first barrage
came in, you try to head for cover, and they throw
you out. You've got to dig your own. Find out who
your friends are. Yeah, right.
So they were retreating. You joined the unit about
10 days late. And you came in the middle of an
artillery barrage. At the end of, near Tobruk.
And from then on it was just one retreat after
another. We were just retreating. Just stop and
then fire and stop and run again and see more
foxholes. I must have dug hundreds of foxholes
every night. New foxhole because the P-38s would
come and come over us and shoot like, you know,
flying over. So you had to have cover on. Yes. Oh,
I see. Which is hard to explain. One here. Which is,
is there slight loss? I forget
which side you stand on, but... It's really
terrible.
We didn't have any of these earplugs. The American
soldiers had earplugs, but they carried little
plastic things,
I'd say. Invisible sound and smell. Yes, sure, the
acrid acid smell. And I've never really heard any,
I know they make a lot of movies, but I can't quite
capture it now. Is it the sound they can't capture,
or the noise, or the smell? Well, of course the
smell they can, but it's the... when the fragments
start, after the thing hits, which is a very scary
thing, wherever it hits, nearby or something,
everything seems nearby. Once, after it
explodes, you can hear these fragments, you know,
you can almost see them, you can, because they make
different sounds, you know, these fragments, how
they zing all over the place. That's the scary part
because you think, you know, You have no
protection against these things. You're just
standing there practically naked. At least the
old knights had some armor. I feel sorry. I mean,
the soldiers are just, they feel terrible. They
feel so naked. Well, Gene says I finally get to tell
my war stories. Yes. I have never, so you have to
kind of pardon me if I get carried away. Not pardon
you at all. I want to encourage you to think of any
story that...
We
were in a camp outside. I saw the Pope. I got blessed
by the Pope. Oh, my gosh. Yeah. At the time, you have
to... I just am not too accurate. We have to fit it
all in. It's going to fit all in. Yeah. The records
will give us the time slots. But... we i even went to
pompeii saw the schmutz the uh the schmutz on the
walls the pompeii went to see the pope he blessed my
rose and crowns my rosemary yes which i sent back
home and then we were camped outside rome i suppose
what's naples naples I mean, there's nothing much
or anything waiting for them to get over there for
some transfer. And a lot of it is kind of hazy
because you're getting close to the battle zone
and you get kind of scared. Sure. So you're 22 years
old? About 22, 23.
So it gets pretty scary the closer you get, you
know. And then we just ran most of the time. Stop,
dig another foxhole, shoot off some rounds, run
again. You were firing rifles, or this is still
artillery? No, this is artillery. They called
them storm artillery for some reason. Because it
was a different kind of warfare. Rommel invented
that kind of stuff, that just hit and run kind of
thing. That was his forte. In fact, he got killed. a
few days after I arrived. And we were told he was
shot by a strafing plane when he actually killed
himself. So he knew what was going on. We
didn't know. In other words, in general, I forgot.
He did come
by one time. He was a short guy. Juan Arnim. Juan
Arnim, I think. A-R-N-I-M. the day when they i had
my orders to go what is that that german academy for
the officers there was in berlin it's the same as um
yeah but that wasn't no no the regular i can for the
life of me instead of west point yes and i had my
orders to go there for the final schooling. Now,
this isn't in North Africa. It's before North
Africa. After North Africa? Oh, yeah. This was my
hands-on. I had my battlefront experience. And
now I got the orders. And at the same time when the
orders came through, they said, you can't go
because we're surrounded. So, it's to stay where
you are. And
then we just sat. They said, stay in your foxholes.
until you get more orders, and we stayed in there
for a couple of days. It seemed like I was reading a
book and waiting for something to happen. I didn't
know if anybody was going to come by with machine
guns or what, but actually nobody came by.
They kept the command intact almost, and our
officers took us in. And then they were separated
into officer camps and so forth. And we were
separated into non-commissioned officer camps
and so on. But the captors didn't come in with
machine guns. But you don't know. So you were
trapped in an area after a long series of retreats.
You got your orders to... go to Berlin to the
officers academy found out that there was no place
to go because you couldn't leave because
everybody was trapped so the and your officers
simply said this stay and sit tight and someone's
going to either come and get us or we're going to get
out of it or something's going to happen but we're
going to sit tight do anything okay your your rank
at the time was what um my rank was I think uh I was
made under-officer right about that time,
actually. I was promoted. Yeah, I was just
promoted then for my trip back. They made me
under-officer. Second lieutenant. No, it
was a sergeant. Sergeant. I don't know. no well
it's higher than a third of the german army which
was uh private's importance so you found yourself
uh waiting sitting around for a couple of days
reading a book uh concerned that the next people
you would see would be either british or americans
or did you know which ones which one But you knew
that you were trapped. Because the British used a
lot of foreign troops. They used Indian troops.
That's right. They had the Khyber riflemen coming
in. Yes. But you knew that you were trapped, and you
knew that the next thing... They were surrounded.
They were surrounded, so it was going to be a
surrender. No mercy. Right.
Did you have any close hand-to-hand combat? No.
This is all... I think I mentioned that episode in
the letter, because we wouldn't even know what to
do in close combat. We had no weapons for close
combat. That's right, no pistols, sure. We had no
handguns. Never issued, in fact, nobody in the
German Army has. I know we didn't have any.
And we only had these great big guns, so what do you
do? They were only good for 10 kilometers or
something like that. They were hauled by
motorized units. There was one in the more
modern
armies. So the first people you saw when you were
sitting in the foxhole reading were American
soldiers or British soldiers? No, no foreign
soldiers. Nobody? Nobody, no. Your officers?
They just said, get out of your foxhole and follow
these guys. So they, whoever made the sign that
surrendered,
you know, said we were bringing our own troops and
returning them to whoever won. There was a lot that
took them in on this. It took a lot to cross their
lines. So
we
just marched in single file and pretty soon one of
our guys came out and the British took us away. We
were in some camps and some oasis. And it was, not
much was happening. And they moved us every so
often, it seemed like, in the east. until
you were taken over by the Americans. So you were
actually guarded by British troops. The line is
getting larger and larger as more troops are being
brought in from different battles in different
areas. And then you're being funneled in a way
farther and farther east toward the larger camps
under the hands of the British holding camp.
Well,
Steve, I always
throw off
the direction that you're going, so I can take
where it is. You're remembering a lot of things
now, and some of the times you've said it's hard to
remember. Details. I'm curious, since revealing
this to Jim, have you begun to have a lot more
memories of things coming back to you, or were
these as well-retained all the time? Was it
something you could dwell on all the time, so it
stayed in your mind? I may have on some aspects like
when I was you know I was alone a lot for the first few
years you know in small rooms I may have dwelled on
it but once I got out and made new friends which was
great because then I didn't have to think about it
and once I had some social contacts and especially
once I got married it was even In fact, Gene always
quotes me. It's one of my, when I said, marriage is
so time consuming. You
have no time to think, which is great, you think.
Keeps you, keeps the memories at bay. Yeah. So it
was very therapeutic to see all these new images
and new experiences were coming in, you know,
children and so on. But before that, of course, I
had also my social life was not too bad, I had a lot of
good friends, male friends.
This guy that gave me the first job, real decent
job, as an estimator salesman,
I had somehow found the university courts at
Berkeley. And there were a lot of foreign students
there at the time, so my accent didn't show up very
much, so I felt comfortable. Whatever story,
cover story I had would probably hold. And I made
some real good friends. One of them was a Turk. And
he
kind of became my mentor because he knew more and he
had gone to school for a while and had a very good
job, a fabulous job with MasterCard, with the
founder of MasterCard. If you can believe that. So
he had lots of money. And he was a very generous guy.
And a lot of fun to be with. And we played a lot of
tennis. And then I met some of our professors that I
played with. And I was quite a good player. So they
liked to play with me. And I had a real good group
there. We'd have a lot of beer and pizza parties.
And then we'd sit around the round table. The real,
the old, what do they call them, Greek symposium
type thing where everybody can stand up and make
their speeches. Well, we took it literally, and we
did it. And we had a beer and pizza on a rainy day like
this for hours. And Sadat would pick up the bill,
$20, whatever it was, and he'd pay. So we'd all chip
in. I mean, you know, which was fun, if you can drink
five or six hours of beer and pizza and talk your
head off and anything under the sun. So there was
marvelous. Thanks. Oh, that's a good question.
See, these are the small details that I have. Well,
the German army will give books to their front line
people. Like, every night the canteen comes in,
you can hear the pots. In fact, they seem to be
eating the other side also, because there's very
little firing during that time, during eating
time. During eating time? Yeah. No army wants to
break up. No, no. Dinner. And they sent out, they
bring out books, and I remember it was a marvelous
love story. Yeah, sure. It was a marvelous love
story about a man, kind of a refugee of some sort,
from the Russian army or something, that he was a
fugitive. And he had found some woman, a woman that
took him on, that took him in, and it was a great love
story.
And I always thought that, you know, Yeah, it was my
great love story, you see. Oh, nice. Yes, it is.
Yes, it is. Yeah, it was a... Yes, that's nice. I
felt it was, you know, uplifting. The story was
uplifting. Yes, especially when you knew you were
going to be taken prisoner by somebody in the next
couple of days. Yeah, and they have no idea where
you're going to end up or what's going to happen to
you. That book has sustained me many, many times.
And I wish anybody could read it, like in any
foxhole anywhere in the world. which there are
plenty of right now, this very minute, somebody's
been shot at. And you need an uplifting story. How
can I get out of this? I'm going to find a woman that
will put up with me after all this, you know, that
type of thing. So that was just a novel.
You had mentioned a movie or a TV movie that was
similar to that. A TV movie? I remember a movie that
called Summer of My German Soldier. It was a TV
movie, perhaps five or ten years ago. And you was
there? Summer of My German Soldier, in
Mississippi someplace, or Alabama, a German,
local German prison camp, and he escapes and falls
in love with a Jewish girl in the town. Yes, yes.
Really? Oh, a Jewish girl? This fellow, they gave
me my first job. Herb Lipkin was Jewish. Great big
guy. About my size, but not bigger. Taught me
everything about business. And he and I would go
skiing together. Thanksgiving roll around, he'd
lock up and say, let's go to Aspen. Oh, that's nice.
It's over a thousand miles in his great big Buick.
We'd go to Aspen and ski and Utah, Alta, Alta. Alta?
Alta, A-L-T-A, Utah. But when was this?